
DCPOtools
=========

`DCPOtools` includes functions to help preparing panel data for Dynamic Comparative Publicion Opinion (DCPO) analyses.

The study of comparative public opinion has been hampered by data that is sparse, that is, unavailable for many countries and years; incomparable, i.e., ostensibly addressing the same issue but generated by different survey items; or, most often, both. DCPO for estimating latent public opinion from cross-national survey data to maximize the information gleaned from available sources, overcome issues of missing and incomparable data, and allow comparativists to examine the dynamics of public opinion across countries.

For a detailed description, see [the working paper here](https://github.com/fsolt/dcpo_article/blob/master/paper/dcpo_article.pdf).

The method is associated with an R package, [`DCPO`](https://github.com/fsolt/DCPO), for users' convenience to apply the method.
However, there are special requirements for the data format to conduct DCPO, and this is where the `DCPOtools` can provide help.

### Installation

`DCPOtools` requires the package `gesisdata` to be successfully installed.
Before `gesisdata` is released in CRAN, users should first install it before installing `DCPOtools` with the follow commands:

```r
remotes::install_github("fsolt/gesisdata")
```

Then, the `DCPOtools` can be installed with the following commands:

```r
remotes::install_github("fsolt/DCPOtools")
```

Please be aware that `DCPOtools` is only for data preparation.
To apply DCPO, one should install the [`DCPO` package](https://github.com/fsolt/DCPO) separately. 
See the instruction of the `DCPO` package [here](https://github.com/fsolt/DCPO). 

